---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "collibra-data-access_grant Resource - collibra_data_access"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The resource for representing a Collibra Data Access Grant access control.
---

# collibra-data-access_grant (Resource)

The resource for representing a Collibra Data Access Grant access control.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "collibra-data-access_datasource" "ds" {
  name = "exampleDS"
}

resource "collibra-data-access_grant" "grant1" {
  name        = "First grant"
  description = "A simple grant"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      user : "user1@company.com"
    },
    {
      user : "user2@company.com"
      promise_duration : 604800
    }
  ]
  type = "role"
  data_sources = [
    {
      data_source : data.collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
      type : "role"
    }
  ]
  what_data_objects = [
    {
      data_object = {
        type        = "table"
        path        = ["DB1", "SCHEMA1", "TABLE1"]
        data_source = data.collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
      }
      permissions : ["SELECT", "INSERT"]
      global_permissions : []
    },
    {
      data_object = {
        type        = "table"
        path        = ["DB1", "SCHEMA1", "TABLE2"]
        data_source = data.collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
      }
      permissions : []
      global_permissions : ["READ"]
    }
  ]
}

resource "collibra-data-access_grant" "grant_purpose1" {
  name        = "Grant2"
  description = "Grant with inherited who"
  category    = "purpose"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      access_control = collibra-data-access_grant.grant1.id
    }
  ]
  data_sources = [
    {
      data_source : collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
      type : "role"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data_sources` (Attributes Set) The list of data sources that this grant is applicable to (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--data_sources))
- `name` (String) The name of the grant

### Optional

- `category` (String) The ID of the category of the grant
- `description` (String) The description of the grant
- `inheritance_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who access providers are set.
- `owners` (Set of String) User id of the owners of this grant
- `state` (String) The state of the grant Possible values are: ["Active", "Inactive"]
- `what_abac_rules` (Attributes Set) The abac rules for defining the what of a grant. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rules))
- `what_data_objects` (Attributes Set) The data object what items associated to the grant. When this is not set (nil), the what list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Collibra Data Access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_data_objects))
- `what_locked` (Boolean) Indicates whether it should lock the what. Should be set to true if what_data_objects or what_abac_rule is set.
- `who` (Attributes Set) The who-items associated with the grant. When this is not set (nil), the who-list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Collibra Data Access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who))
- `who_abac_rules` (Attributes Set) The abac rules for defining the dynamic who-items associated with the grant (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who_abac_rules))
- `who_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who users or who_abac_rule is set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the grant

<a id="nestedatt--data_sources"></a>
### Nested Schema for `data_sources`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source of the grant

Optional:

- `type` (String) The implementation type of the grant for this data source


<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rules`

Required:

- `do_types` (Set of String) Set of data object types associated to the abac rule
- `id` (String) A unique ID of the abac rule within this access control
- `rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule
- `scope` (Attributes Set) Scope of the defined abac rule as a list of data objects (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rules--scope))

Optional:

- `global_permissions` (Set of String) Set of global permissions that should be granted on the matching data object. Allowed values are [READ WRITE ADMIN]
- `permissions` (Set of String) Set of permissions that should be granted on the matching data object

<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rules--scope"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rules.scope`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source the data object belongs to
- `path` (List of String) The path of the data object
- `type` (String) The type of the data object



<a id="nestedatt--what_data_objects"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_data_objects`

Required:

- `data_object` (Object) The reference to the data object (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_data_objects--data_object))

Optional:

- `global_permissions` (Set of String) The set of global permissions granted to the data object. Allowed values are [READ WRITE ADMIN]
- `permissions` (Set of String) The set of permissions granted to the data object

<a id="nestedatt--what_data_objects--data_object"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_data_objects.data_object`

Optional:

- `data_source` (String)
- `path` (List of String)
- `type` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--who"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who`

Optional:

- `access_control` (String) The ID of the access control in Collibra Data Access. Cannot be set if `user` is set.
- `promise_duration` (Number) Specify this to indicate that this who-item is a promise instead of a direct grant. This is specified as the number of seconds that access should be granted when requested.
- `user` (String) The email address of the user. This cannot be set if `access_control` is set.


<a id="nestedatt--who_abac_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who_abac_rules`

Required:

- `id` (String) A unique ID of the abac rule within this access control
- `rule` (String) The JSON representation of the abac rule

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
#Import grant. Not that who and what_data_objects will not be imported
terraform import collibra-data-access_grant.example GrantId
```
