---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "collibra-data-access_mask Resource - collibra_data_access"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The resource for representing a Column Mask access control.
---

# collibra-data-access_mask (Resource)

The resource for representing a Column Mask access control.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "collibra-data-access_datasource" "ds" {
  name = "exampleDS"
}

resource "collibra-data-access_mask" "example" {
  name        = "A Mask"
  description = "A simple mask"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      user : "user1@company.com"
    },
  ]
  data_sources = [
    {
      data_source = data.collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
      type        = "SHA256"
    }
  ]
  columns = [
    {
      type        = "column"
      path        = ["SOME_DB", "SOME_SCHEMA", "SOME_TABLE", "SOME_COLUMN"]
      data_source = data.collibra-data-access_datasource.ds.id
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data_sources` (Attributes Set) The list of data sources that this mask is applicable to (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--data_sources))
- `name` (String) The name of the mask

### Optional

- `columns` (Attributes Set) The list of columns that should be included in the mask. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--columns))
- `description` (String) The description of the mask
- `inheritance_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who access providers are set.
- `owners` (Set of String) User id of the owners of this mask
- `state` (String) The state of the mask Possible values are: ["Active", "Inactive"]
- `what_abac_rules` (Attributes Set) The abac rules for defining the what of a make. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rules))
- `what_locked` (Boolean) Indicates whether it should lock the what. Should be set to true if columns or what_abac_rule is set.
- `who` (Attributes Set) The who-items associated with the mask. When this is not set (nil), the who-list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Collibra Data Access. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who))
- `who_abac_rules` (Attributes Set) The abac rules for defining the dynamic who-items associated with the mask (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who_abac_rules))
- `who_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who users or who_abac_rule is set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the mask

<a id="nestedatt--data_sources"></a>
### Nested Schema for `data_sources`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source that this mask is applicable to
- `type` (String) The masking type to use for the mask in this data source. Available types are defined by the data source.


<a id="nestedatt--columns"></a>
### Nested Schema for `columns`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source the data object belongs to
- `path` (List of String) The path of the data object
- `type` (String) The type of the data object


<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rules`

Required:

- `rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule
- `scope` (Attributes Set) Scope of the defined abac rule as a list of data objects (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rules--scope))

Optional:

- `id` (String) The ID of the abac rule

<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rules--scope"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rules.scope`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source the data object belongs to
- `path` (List of String) The path of the data object
- `type` (String) The type of the data object



<a id="nestedatt--who"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who`

Optional:

- `access_control` (String) The ID of the access control in Collibra Data Access. Cannot be set if `user` is set.
- `promise_duration` (Number) Specify this to indicate that this who-item is a promise instead of a direct grant. This is specified as the number of seconds that access should be granted when requested.
- `user` (String) The email address of the user. This cannot be set if `access_control` is set.


<a id="nestedatt--who_abac_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who_abac_rules`

Required:

- `rule` (String) The JSON representation of the abac rule

Optional:

- `id` (String) The ID of the abac rule

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
#Import mask. Not that who and columns will not be imported
terraform import collibra-data-access_mask.example MaskId
```
